---
- title: "Time to Recover/Remediate/Restore (TTR)"
- summary: "Your systems are down! Customers are calling. Every moment counts. What do you do?"
- toc: true
- branch: master
- badges: true
- comments: true
- image: [https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2016-boise/speakers/jason-hand.jpg]
- categories: [Ignite The Tour, sre, chatops, devops]
- metadata_key1: Ignite The Tour
- metadata_key2: sre
---

# Responding To Incidents

The systems we work in eventually have problems. They are built, maintained, and supported by technolgists such as yourself. And when an issue inevitably occurs, someone needs to take action to restore services.

Many organizations don't currently have an incident response plan in place. In fact, efforts to recover from service disruptions rarely follow any kind of repeatable and measured framework at all. Engineers react rather than respond.

With the increased reliance on digital services and their underlying technology it's more important than ever to establish an explicit response plan. There are small steps that you could take immediately so that when the next problem occurs, everyone knows what to do. The incident itself can be viewed not just as an outage but an opportunity to learn.

## Time to Recover/Remediate/Restore (TTR)

Are you familiar with the acronym T. T. R.?

It is known as the “Time to Recover” or also sometimes referred to as the “time to remediate” or “time to restore.”

In other words, the total time that it takes for engineers to bring services back online… with regards to the value provided to end users and customers. It is the total duration of time for the incident?

The time to recover will vary from incident to incident and the circumstances around what contributed to the problem will rarely repeat. Because of this, measuring the TTR in aggregate can be a misleading metric. The Mean Time to Recover does not reflect a valuable performance metric on either the uptime of your systems or how well (or poorly) teams can respond to and remediate service disruptions.

While not a perfect metric, it is one in which organizations can begin to measure how teams are performing when it comes to responding to incidents individually. We will need to examine the entire incident timeline to gain a broader understanding of what took place and where improvements can be made.

Most anyone who works with technology will agree that the complete prevention of problems is not very realistic.  

Instead, we must do better at knowing when something is wrong and being able to respond to it in an effective way.

## Resources

[MS Learn: Improve Incident Response with Alerting in Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/incident-response-with-alerting-on-azure/)

## Next steps

[What Are Incidents?](2020-02-25-Incidents.html)