---
- title: "Analysis"
- summary: "Your systems are down! Customers are calling. Every moment counts. What do you do?"
- toc: true
- branch: master
- image: [https://www.devopsdays.org/events/2016-boise/speakers/jason-hand.jpg]
- categories: [Ignite The Tour, sre, chatops, devops]
- metadata_key1: Ignite The Tour
- metadata_key2: sre
---

# Analysis

The post-incident review is where the idea of incidents begin to shift from things that are feared and avoided to things that can provide valuable information to a team and business.

Rarely will you find a business today that doesn't heavily rely on digital services to earn and keep customers. There are going to be problems along the way. Not only that, but customers expect improvements, technology changes, competitors get smarter. There are fewer and fewer industries that can maintain the status quo and continue to exist, let alone prosper.

The analysis phase allows for an honest and open retrospective discussion about what took place. We as an organization want to understand the realities of the scenario from an objective perspective.

Specific procedures for post-incident reviews vary but focus conversations on what and how things happened rather than who and why. By identifying the incident timeline as well as the specific markers signaling the beginning and end of each phase, the conversation can be focused on specific opportunities. 

Regardless of how these exercises are performed they should take place no more than 36-48 hours after the incident has concluded. We are looking to collect as much objective data as well as testimonial from a diverse set of perspectives. It's difficult to remember what took place in as much detail after a couple of days.

If possible, the exercise should be facilitated by someone that was not involved in the incident. Someone who can remove themselves from the timeline of events and perspectives of what took place. Objective data is often easier to obtain when someone else asks the questions and encourages an honest conversation.

The point of a post-incident review isn't to end up with a document or artifact that the meeting took place. It's not an exploration on what definitively caused the issue in the first place.

Our system is always changing. That's just where we are today. Businesses that are providing some kind of service to their customers where technology is involved are required to make constant changes. It doesn't matter if it's in the cloud, data center, or closet, servers need improvements and replacements. Operating systems need patches and upgrades. Applications need to be updated and restarted. Databases and logs are changing and filling. Networks are coming and going. There's a lot going on and it's often difficult to put our thumb on exactly what's causing what.

The good news is, it's ok.

Part of the advantage of examining incidents by phases means that regardless to the problems we experience in the future, we know that we can detect a problem, get the right people involved, and recover services faster than before. We are prepared for the infinite world of possibilities we like to call the "unknown unknowns".

This takes us to our final phase of the incident lifecycle, readiness.

[Readiness Phase of an Incident](2020-03-04-Readiness.html)
